---
layout: post
title: Learning to Program in R
---
## Everyone in this course had some programming experience coming in.  What are your thoughts on R vs whatever other software you've used?

I’ve taken a course on Base SAS and I’ve also dabbled a bit in Python. Between the two, python is much more similar to R than SAS. Indeed, SAS seems to be pretty unique to itself in the way it’s written and run. 

## What functionality do you like about R?

I like that I don’t have to wrap everything in a proc or data step and that I can run multiple sets of data through the same code without having to repeat a proc for each individual data sets that I want to analyze. 

## What parts do you miss about your other language?

Even though I have the bad habit of skipping over it at first still, the error log in SAS is very useful. I find it much easier to parse what’s going wrong in the SAS error log than when R complains about something I wrote.

## Do you consider R a difficult language to learn?

My experience with R prior to this course was picking it up while in other courses. This was pretty difficult I think. I felt confident using R for very basic operations and was even okay at using RMarkdown (though not using nearly all of the features!). And though I really liked the graphs and whatnot that R was able to produce using ggplot, every time I decided to try and learn the syntax I felt very overwhelmed. I’m very glad that this course has been focusing a bit on the tidyverse! All in all, when actually sitting down to learn R in a structured and thought out way, learning R and filling knowledge gaps hasn’t been bad at all.
