---
layout: post
title: Data Scientist vs. Statistician
---
## What do you think being a data scientist is about?  

Being a data scientist is about being able to use statistics and programming to look at and analyze data in a way to efficiently to answer questions in a specific domain. This includes answering any questions that are underlying the original question or determining if the question that’s being posed is the best one to find the desired answer. They are a sort of liaison between the question/need, the data and the analysis. 
## What do you see as the major duties and/or knowledge areas?  

For major duties, I think that the data scientist must be able to parse the domain question or business need from the subject matter expert. They need to be able to determine if the data in hand will answer that question, or if more data or different data is needed.
## What differences/similarities do you see between data scientists and statisticians?  

They both use statistics. Given the articles we were asked to read it looks to me like statisticians are more interested with the actual statistics used whereas the data scientist is more interested in the solution to a domain problem. 

The way each goes about using statistics and methods also seems to differ. The statistician is more interested in building an appropriate model as simply as possible keeping in mind all of the needed assumptions. The data scientist will cull down to a specific model from many potential ones. 

The data scientist will also perform a lot of data cleaning and manipulation that the statistician may not deal with depending on the role. This cleaning and manipulation would require some coding skill, depending on the language used to ingest and analyze the data.
## How do you view yourself in relation to these two areas?  

I’m not sure, but probably closer to a data scientist than statistician as the data scientist feels much more like an applied position. But, saying that, I am not the most adept with my coding skills and am working on improving them. 

Articles Referenced:

[Data Scientists vs Statisticians - Medium](https://medium.com/odscjournal/data-scientists-versus-statisticians-8ea146b7a47f)

[Machine Learning Engineer vs. Data Scientist](https://www.springboard.com/blog/machine-learning-engineer-vs-data-scientist/)

[Data Science vs. Data Analytics vs. Machine Learning - Expert Talk](https://www.simplilearn.com/data-science-vs-data-analytics-vs-machine-learning-article)

[What is data science vs. statistics? - The Signal](https://mixpanel.com/blog/2016/03/30/this-is-the-difference-between-statistics-and-data-science/)
